# DALL-E 2.0 Clone Image Generation from Text Prompts

This MERN stack application allows users to generate images from text prompts using a custom DALL-E clone. Users can create images with their own prompts or click the "Surprise Me" button to receive a randomly generated prompt. The generated images can be downloaded or shared with the community of creators. Additionally, users have the option to download images generated by other users.

## Features

Image Generation: Create stunning and imaginative images from text prompts.
Custom Prompts: Input your own text prompts to generate unique images.
Surprise Me: Generate random prompts with the click of a button.
Download Images: Save the generated images to your device for personal use.
Share with Community: Share your created images with the community of creators.
Community Downloads: Explore and download images generated by other users.
Usage Limits: To manage costs associated with the OpenAI API, users are limited to generating 5 images per IP address.


## Technologies Used

MongoDB: Store user data and generated images.
Express.js: Create RESTful API endpoints.
React: Build the user interface.
Node.js: Run the server for image generation.
OpenAI API: Power the image generation process.
React Router: Handle client-side routing.
Bootstrap: Style the frontend components.
Cloudinary: Images are saved in Cloudinary
FileSaver.js: Enable image downloads.

## Run Locally

  cd backend
Install dependencies

  npm install
Start the server

  npm run start
Go to the project frontend directory

  cd frontend
Install dependencies

  npm install
Start the project

  npm run dev


  ## Warning

  MongoDB Atlas is no longer free, The free tier is only available for 15days. As this is a Mern Stack project and I have been using the free tier. The API key won't work.
